Introduction
Since we noticed, that freedb support in many programs is not as good as it
could be, we thought it might be a good idea to create something like a
checklist you can use, when adding freedb support to your program. Please read
this document carefully when adding freedb support to a program, as it tries to
help you to do things as good as possible.

If you add freedb support to a program or change parts of your program
concerning freedb support, we would be glad, if you would provide us with a
testing-version of your program, so we can test it ourselves and notify you, if
something doesn't work as it should (applies only to programs running on
Windows and Linux/Unix as we cannot test programs running on other systems
ourselves).  If you inform us about a new release adding freedb support to your
application or including major improvements in freedb support, we're also
willing to put a note about that on our web site. Additionally the program can
be added to our list of freedb aware applications.  Unfortunately we cannot
promise, that we will test your application, because our volunteer staff is
pretty small and keeping the server alive, releasing database archives etc. has
obviously priority over other tasks.

General:

    * Please support submit to freedb, to give users chance to support freedb
by submitting information for unknown discs. This is very important for the
freedb concept to work, since freedb is completely dependent on users
submitting information about new CD's.
    * Please consider supporting the offline database in Windows- and
Unix-format (you can find more information on the Windows- and Unix-format in
freedb-howto). Many users download the database archives to avoid having to go
online for each freedb query.
    * Make absolutely sure that the disc ID is generated correctly. For CD
Extra CD's you have to include the data-track for the disc ID and track
offsets! This can be somewhat tricky, since you cannot use the MCI-interface to
get the TOC - it will not report the data-track! For Windows you will have to
use ASPI (or native NT calls in NT/2000) as a workaround. To check if your
program is generating the disc ID correctly, please compare the results of your
program with the disc ID xmcd generates for as large a number of CDs as
possible if you have access to a Linux system. For Windows you can also use the
Disc ID calculator, which you can find in our download/misc section.
    * Provide support for http-proxies - users behind restrictive firewalls
might need to use a proxy.
    * Please consider supporting batch queries/submits, so that the user
doesn't have to be online for each CD he wants to query or submit.
    * When naming freedb, name it freedb or freedb.org - not freecddb, FreeDB
or anything else.
    * If connecting to the freedb-server fails or no matching entry was found,
present the user an appropriate error-message (this applies of course to query
and submit).
    * Please consider also supporting the EXT-fields of the database entries to
give users a chance to see and add additional info on the CD or specific tracks
to the database entry (see the database format specification for more info on
the EXT-fields).

Config:

    * Give the user the possibility to specify a server manually (so he can use
a local server).
    * Provide the user with an option to get the sites-list from the actually
selected server (if that doesn't work, try getting it from freedb.freedb.org)
    * When presenting the sites-list to the user, also show the
location-information received when using the sites-command
    * Make the cgi-path for http-access user-configurable. Although we do not
intend to change the default path, users running the freedb server software on
a local server may be using use a different path.
    * Make the submit-e-mail-address for e-mail-submission user-configurable.
The possibility to change the e-mail-submission-address can be used to make
test submissions to the test-submit-address (which might be useful to analyze
possible problems) or to allow submit to a private local server
    * If you support cddbp, let the user specify the port for cddbp-access.
Port 8880 should be default, since it causes less problems with firewalls than
the "old" port 888 (which is still supported by our servers).
    * When using the e-mail-submit-method, allow specifying a mail server to be used for sending the e-mail to.
    * Let the user specify an e-mail-address, which you use for requests and
submits. You may use a predefined (fake-)e-mail-address for requests, if you
are concerned about privacy (although we assure, that we do not use the
e-mail-addresses provided for freedb access for anything), while you may never
submit to freedb, if the user hasn't specified an e-mail-address himself, as we
must be able to send a possible rejection-notice to the user.

Access:

    * Every application should use the http-method to access freedb, since
cddbp access often causes problems with firewalls preventing the communication
via port 888 or 8880. You may additionally offer the possibility to use cddbp
instead, however.
    * Always use the highest supported protocol level (currently level 6, which
brings Unicode (UTF-8) support).
    * Make sure, that inexact matches (return-code 211) and multiple exact
matches (return-code 210) are supported and present the list of possible
matches to the user, to select the correct entry.
    * Always do a query before reading from the database.
    * Do only fetch the sites list if the user asks for it! Fetching it more
often (e.g. before every query) puts unnecessary strain on our servers and
should be avoided!
    * Always specify the programs own name and full version, when accessing the
server.
    * When using http-access, please make sure, that you don't use something
like
      POST http://selected_server/~cddb/cddb.cgi HTTP/1.0
      Instead use
      POST /~cddb/cddb.cgi HTTP/1.0
      (same applies to GET)
      Although both methods work with the official servers, only the later
complies to the RFC's, since the former may only be used when the request is
being made to a proxy (see RFC1945). The former command-syntax can cause
problems on private freedb servers.
    * Make sure that you support information split to two or more lines (for
more info on this take a look at the database format specification).

Submit:

    * Make sure submissions are submitted in the 7bit US-ASCII, in the
ISO-8859-1 or in the UTF-8 character set. Other character sets are not
supported. If all submissions should be sent in UTF-8.
    * When submitting by e-mail and using the ISO-8859-1 or UTF-8 character
set, you should use the MIME "quoted-printable" or "base64" scheme to encode
the message to avoid the risk, that the 8th bit is stripped off during e-mail
submit.
    * Please consider using the X-Cddbd-Note:-header in the submit-e-mail or
for http-submit. For more information on the X-Cddbd-Note:-header, please check
the freedb-howto.
    * Check, that none of the fields are empty and no field contains the
default-string (this also applies to the genre: please set no default for the
genre for an unknown disc, but let the user choose the genre).
    * Always specify the name and the full version of your program in the
submitted entry - if it's an alpha or beta, also state that (check database
format specification for more info how the format for this is).
    * When submitting a new entry to the freedb, the revision specified in the
submitted entry should be 0.
    * When submitting an entry received from freedb and modified by a user,
increment the revision number by one (since entries having the same or a lower
revision than an existing entry will be discarded).
    * When submitting an entry received from freedb and modified by a user, the
genre category of the entry should be pre-selected and not editable for submit,
since resubmitting an entry to a different category will not overwrite the old
entry, but additionally create a new entry in the new category. This is only
necessary for the general genre category, not for the specific genre specified
in the DGENRE field of an entry, which may of course be updated.
    * Do NOT hardlink genres (specified on the DGENRE line in the database
entry) to categories! In case of a disc ID collision, a user might need to
submit to a different (wrong) category to get the CD into freedb. If genre and
category were hardlinked, this would mean that the user would also have to
specify an incorrect genre!
    * Make sure, that lines in the submission are no longer than 256 chars. If
the line is longer, you have to split the information to two or more lines (you
can find more information on this in the database format specification).
    * When submitting information from a local entry or resubmitting an entry
received from freedb after the user has made changes to it, make sure that you
correct the track-offset and disc ID information for the inserted CD.

